---
name: Home Automation
tools: [Home Assistant]
image: /images/projects/HomeAutomation/HomeAssistant.png
description: My home automation installation powered by Home Assistant
pinned: true
release-date: 2023-04-01
weight: 1
---

# Home Automation

Leveraging the power of Home Assistant, my home automation setup is designed to enhance convenience, security, and efficiency.

## Monitoring

Monitor and analyze various aspects of my home environment using Home Assistant and Grafana:

- **Solar Panel Production:** Keep a close eye on the energy generated by solar panels.
- **Environmental Metrics:** Track vital stats like temperature and relative humidity.
- **Smart Indoor Garden:** Check soil moisture levels for optimal care of my [indoor garden](https://andrea-joly.fr/projects/smartplantcare).
- **Network Metrics:** Keep tabs on network performance.
- **Homelab Monitoring:** Monitor homelab equipment using SNMP and IPMI.

## Control

Take charge of connected devices seamlessly:

- **Dishwasher Control:** Start or schedule dishwasher cycles remotely.
- **TV Control:** Manage connected TVs effortlessly.
- **Lighting Control:** Adjust lighting settings for different moods.

## Security

Ensuring the security of my home automation system is a top priority:

- **Local Network Access:** Accessible on the local network for quick and secure interactions.
- **Tailscale Integration:** Extend accessibility securely beyond the local network.
- **Fail2ban Protection:** Implement Fail2ban for an additional layer of security.


<p class="text-center">
{% include elements/button.html target="_blank" link="https://www.home-assistant.io/" text="Learn More" %}
</p>
